Rating: 4.5
First of all, I can easily understand why people may not like this book. That being said, I loved it. It's darkly funny, action packed, and has wonderful, imperfect characters. The writing and story get a bit off track in places, but that was really my only issue. The constant action--demon attacks were a daily occurence--kept me on the edge of my seat. It's incredibly engaging, making it easy to race through the book.
El isn't a nice person. Her personality is cold, sarcastic, and closed-off. However, she's got a really funny, dark sense of humor. She can be petty and childish, but it adds to her personality. She insults everyone, but she is fiercely loyal to people who offer her kindness. El constantly insults Orion, but she does truly like him, making it more amusing than anything else. She's not actually a bad person, either. If she wanted, she could raze the school to the ground, but she keeps herself in check despite the fact that most people automatically assume she is a maleficer.
Orion is essentially a dumb, lovable puppy that El keeps as a pet. The way he follows her around is hilarious, especially since he does it just to get insulted. The way other people treat him like a god is very amusing, even more so through El's eyes. He's such a sweet character that it's hard not to like him.
It is clear that an incredible amount of time and effort was spent on worldbuilding. The magic system and details of the school were incredibly detailed and creative. The constant information dumps can seem like a bit much, but they make the world seem more real and thought-out. The world is relatively dark--Scholomance apparently has a one out of four survival rate--but it feels more absurd than scary and just adds to the appeal of the book.
The writing in this book is basically a constant stream of El's thoughts. Since I find El to be an entertaining character, I don't mind that, for the most part. I can also see how that wouldn't appeal to some people, though. One thing that did bother me was El's long stories from her past. Though they can be interesting, they are often so long that they distract from the actual plot. Sometimes, they're barely related to the plot and don't reveal anything important. The switches between past and present can be jarring, but the overall tone of the writing is enjoyable.
This book isn't for everyone, but it's the perfect fantasy world complete with tiny details and a touch of humor. The characters are entertaining, if not always likable, and the plot is full of action. The writing could be better, but there's little else to complain about.
