Rating: 2.5/5
This ended as expected, but still rather disappointing. I would have enjoyed seeing more of the mother and her story instead of the romance. She has what seems like a really complex history, but not many details are given. Her relationship with her daughters is more interesting than any of the romantic relationships in the book, and it was nice to see at least some of that. Though there was more magic and ferrying, the plot was still very romance heavy.
Ailesse had way too much drama--Bastien was bad enough, there was no need to add Cas in. I didn't particularly like Bastien, and Cas wasn't really better. Both of them basically kidnapped and lied to her, so I couldn't care less which one she ended up with. Bastien acts like a jealous, lovesick fool throughout the entire book, and I truly couldn't figure out why Ailesse couldn't just admit she loved him.
Sabine was such a great character in the first book. She was a kind, thoughtful friend who only wanted to help Ailesse. In this book, however, their relationship slowly falls apart due to Ailesse's ridiculous jealousy. Sabine also went a bit crazy, and any affection I had for her quickly morphed into frustration. It wasn't entirely her fault, but it still made the book less enjoyable. <spoiler>Also, did she really have to fall in love with Cas? What was the point of that? She could be a strong, independent leader of her famille without him.</spoiler>
The magic of the book is still really interesting, but more details would have been great. There was some new information about the Chained that could have been explained both better and earlier. <spoiler>At the end of the book, when Sabine figures out how to work magic without all the death, I was just confused. There was little explanation besides “no one has to die anymore!” </spoiler>
There was so much focus and effort spent on the romance in this series that I think it took away from the magic and adventure aspects. I enjoyed some parts involving Ailesse, Sabine, and their mother, but I wish that could have shown up more. I didn't hate this book, but the good parts don't fully outweigh the good. Unless you're invested in Ailesse's love life, this book is not going to be very enjoyable.
