Rating: 3.25/5
Daunis is an excellent main character because of both her flaws and intelligence. She's imperfect, sometimes annoying, and frustrating, but this only makes her more realistic. She's also an incredibly smart woman with a knack for science, making her a very appealing character for me. This also makes her the perfect candidate for an investigator because she has a talent for detecting deception and uncovering secrets. I enjoyed watching her development, and she was definitely one of the highlights of the book.
Despite Daunis's strength, her story revolves too much around Jamie, and their relationship consumes too much space in the book. While Jamie was a nice guy, hardly anything real is actually ever revealed about him. When you look at it, their relationship is not only unlikely but problematic. I feel like the author mentions the issue but glosses over it until the very end of the book, when they end on a (surprisingly) realistic, non-happily-ever-after note. Daunis is a developed and multi-dimensional character, but Jamie is about as complex as a blank piece of paper. In the end, their relationship and, to be honest, Jamie's character were mostly unnecessary.
Levi is a surprisingly complicated character. He seems to genuinely love his sister, but he can do terrible things to her at the same time. He can be sweet but is mostly awful because of how misogynistic he is, a topic that feels almost entirely ignored. Daunis tries to confront him once, but she doesn't do much and the whole situation is handled poorly. There's a lot of casual misogyny from Levi and others that never gets a proper discussion in the book, making it feel irritating rather than intentional and thoughtful. A topic like this merits at least a full conversation, not a lone comment, and I was disappointed that there was none to be found.
The book starts a little slow, but the latter half is much more interesting. There's a lot more action and the investigation picks up speed. To be fair, much of the plot seems unlikely; however, it's fiction, so I don't really care. A good chunk of the book brought more attention to the characters who died, a group which is often ignored. I enjoyed that because it shows that there is more than just a name to people who die in these investigations. Daunis's investigation is exciting and there were at least some surprises along the way, making the book a fun read.
The author clearly knows her native culture; she has a close connection to it, and her knowledge shines through in the plot and characters. The community, a rather authentic representation of native culture, is so sweet and developed. There is a severe lack of books starring Native American culture, so I really enjoyed reading more about it in Firekeeper's Daughter. Overall, Daunis was the best part of the book. The plot is fun, but Daunis was the main thing that kept me reading, or at least when she wasn't dealing with Jamie issues. Firekeeper's Daughter isn't as perfect or wonderful as people seem to think, but it is worth reading and I look forward to whatever the author does next.
Side Note (unpublished):
The tradition of blanket parties in Ojibwe culture is very problematic. While I understand that it is difficult to get justice through the government, such extreme violence is not a solution to the problem. It is cruel and unnecessary, not a beautiful tradition. On top of this, the research I have done indicates that this tradition has its roots in the military. Blanket parties were a common way of initiating new members or punishing military personnel for performing their jobs incorrectly. This is a horrifying practice that is now illegal in the United States. I understand that justice is hard. Still, violence is not, and never will be, the answer.
