Rating: 1.5/5
Honestly, nothing made much sense in this book. The king claims to think bloodmages are just tools to be used, but he is one himself and many of his family are, as well. The characters are unlikeable and lack development, and the plot isn't much better. <spoiler>The author also killed off two of the most prominent characters, yet brought them back to life. There are a number of reasons why this bothers me, but most importantly: it feels like a cop-out, makes no sense, and is completely useless.</spoiler>
The main character, Rovan, is incredibly annoying. She drinks herself into oblivion all the time, whines and complains way too much, and makes poor decisions. Some of the side characters, like Japha or Lydea, were entertaining and not annoying, but they got pushed to the side too often. Even the villains could have used more development; the king barely has a history other than killing his heirs and retaining the throne. There is an extreme lack of history despite the fact that it could be very interesting and increase the development of both plot and characters.
The love plot was terrible; the relationships had little development, leading to a lack of chemistry. Lydea and Rovan ended up making out within hours of meeting, which honestly tracks with Rovan's personality. However, the author rapidly made a switch from hookup to love which felt unnatural and forced. Rovan's relationship with Ivrilos also seemed forced, and it was rather superficial for a while. The author keeps saying they love each other, but there are no subtle cues and development to prove it. Overall, the love plot is poorly executed and adds pretty much nothing to the story.
The fantasy plot is an interesting concept, and some parts are exciting, but, like the love plot, it lacks development. Death magic is barely explained yet is somehow incredibly important, and blood magic is frustratingly convoluted. The book moves quite slowly most of the time, and it doesn't ever seem like anything important is happening. Overall, the author had a good idea but made a lot of poor decisions on the execution. There were a few good parts and lots of potential, but this book needed a lot more time and effort to truly be good.
