Rating: 2/5
While I can appreciate the writing in this book, I did not enjoy the actual story. The writing is elegant with detailed descriptions of Jane's life, a rare style in contemporary novels. However, the actual plot, particularly the latter half, and characters lacked appeal.
The first part of the book simply establishes Jane's backstory, which I found to be the most interesting section. She manages to escape an abusive situation and make her way in the world with what little she has. In that regard, Jane is a strong and intelligent woman. For this time period, Jane is quite honest, outspoken, and stubborn for a woman. Not a modern femenist, but I still like her character in the context of her world.
However, everything goes downhill from the point where Jane meets Mr. Rochester. Mr. Rochester is not a likeable character: he's possessive, manipulative, often cold, and infatuated with Jane. His whole personality is off-putting, and there is no good excuse for it. Jane's attraction to him makes little sense, and she seems to be blind to all his faults.
<spoiler>One of my main issues with Mr. Rochester is that he tries to make Jane fall in love with him by making her jealous. While it works, it is cruel and manipulative, something Jane never recognizes. He also hides the fact that he was married, even after he had proposed. Not only was that, but he kept his wife locked up in the attic and happily married Jane after his wife's death. When Jane threatens to leave him due to his marriage, Mr. Rochester responds with violence and possessiveness instead of understanding her perfectly natural and valid anger.</spoiler> Jane deserves much better than him, and I wish that Mr. Rochester had lived the rest of life knowing he had lost such a wonderful woman.
There is also the rather disturbing matter of Jane's cousin, St. John, who is sexist, manipulative, and frankly horrible to her. He suppresses her feelings and allows her to do little that wasn't sanctioned by him.<spoiler>Not only this, but St. John wants to marry her and coerce her into going to India with him. He would force her to be little more than a housewife, while Jane would much rather be his assistant.</spoiler> Despite this, Jane still believes he is a wonderful man just following God's orders, all because he is a clergyman and servant of God.
I give Brontë credit for her writing -- such lyrical, descriptive language is hard to find in modern books. The structure is much more complex, and though it can be seen as dense and difficult, a little challenge can be quite enjoyable. Jane could have been a truly great character, but she became increasingly infuriating as the plot progressed. Despite Jane's potential, Mr. Rochester was terrible from the start and I hated him with passion. Overall, I simply couldn't enjoy the book because the characters and plot had lost all appeal by the end.
