Tags: classics, romance, historical fiction
Rating: 4/5
To be honest, I found this book quite funny. More funny than romantic, even. The constant denial on the part of Eliza--her insistence that she hates Mr. Darcy--is very amusing. In reality, she seems almost drawn to him, if only for entertainment in the form of arguments. Mr. Darcy's stubborn pride is ridiculous but makes it all the more entertaining when he confesses his love to Eliza. Together, the pair makes the meaning behind the title very, very obvious.
I love Eliza's fearlessness with Mr. Darcy. Unlike the common expectation or image of women in this time period, Eliza has no issue speaking candidly with Mr. Darcy. She has a lot of rude things to say to Mr. Darcy and has no issue letting him know. She is a bold and intelligent woman, part of the reason I think Mr. Darcy was so attracted to her.
I do feel like Mr. Darcy could be a bit cruel, especially in the beginning of the book. <spoiler>His plan to keep Bingley away from Jane was awful and unnecessary. His proposal to Eliza also makes him a hypocrite since the two girls come from the same family. Of course, it does track with his personality.</spoiler> I do like the honest, albeit cold, aspect of his personality. Mr. Darcy doesn't deceive people of his opinion of them, which I appreciate. Some call it cruel, but I would rather have someone tell me what they think of me than play nice. Mr. Darcy does evolve into a kinder, more considerate person throughout the book. He truly cares about Eliza's opinion, and makes a true effort to change. He is actually capable of great kindness, which I was delighted to see.
I like Eliza's elder sister, Jane, who not only has romantic problems of her own, but let Eliza vent about Mr. Darcy. It was nice to see a supportive pair of sisters casually chatting and gossiping. Jane is such a kind, trusting person that she complemented Eliza's bolder nature perfectly. I'm really happy that Jane found someone as nice as Mr. Bingley.
Wickham and Lydia are incredibly annoying, occasionally to the point that I stopped enjoying the book. The pair are careless, inconsiderate, and frustrating. Their plot is somewhat separate from the rest of the book, but still ties in nicely to the main story.
What's truly amazing, though, is the writing. Books from this time period tend to spend a lot more thought on the writing, and it shows. It feels more complex and detailed than modern English, especially when it comes to the dialogue. It's truly a joy to read all the ways Eliza can berate Mr. Darcy while still sounding eloquent and formal. With writing as descriptive as this, the book does move a bit slow. However, if you take the time to enjoy the prose, the book is still an excellent read.
This book has such a strong, visible influence on contemporary romance novels. I certainly enjoy a good romance, and many follow a similar plot pattern. This book is the perfect example of the hilarious and ubiquitous enemies to lovers trope.
